# Note for Homework1 

Writing recursive code in functional language is interesting for me. 

It is efficient to divide the problem into some small problems and interesting to reuse function. 

**int * int * int listmeansint * int * (int list),not(int * int * int) list.**

> For strings, you have to use double-quote "", and not single-quote '’

The type `option` provides a distinction between some value and no value, and is often used for representing the result of partially defined functions. It can be viewed as a typed version of the C convention of returning a `NULL`pointer to indicate no value. 

[some knowledge about option](https://smlfamily.github.io/Basis/option.html)



## Extra practice from the course

Here are some extra programming problems that can be done using the material in this module.  Many are similar in difficulty and content to the homework, but they are not the homework, so you are free to discuss solutions, etc. on the discussion forum.  Thanks to Charilaos Skiadas for contributing these.

1. Write a function alternate : int list -> intalternate : int list -> int that takes a list of numbers and adds them with alternating sign. For example alternate [1,2,3,4] = 1 - 2 + 3 - 4 = -2alternate [1,2,3,4] = 1 - 2 + 3 - 4 = -2.
2. Write a function min_max : int list -> int * intmin_max : int list -> int * int that takes a non-empty list of numbers, and returns a pair (min, max)(min, max) of the minimum and maximum of the numbers in the list.
3. Write a function cumsum : int list -> int listcumsum : int list -> int list that takes a list of numbers and returns a list of the partial sums of those numbers. For example cumsum [1,4,20] = [1,5,25]cumsum [1,4,20] = [1,5,25].
4. Write a function greeting : string option -> stringgreeting : string option -> string that given a string  option SOMESOME *name* returns the string "Hello there, ...!""Hello there, ...!" where the dots would be replaced by *name*. Note that the name is given as an option, so if it is NONENONE then replace the dots with "you""you".
5. Write a function repeat : int list * int list -> int listrepeat : int list * int list -> int list that given a list of integers and another list of nonnegative integers, repeats the integers in the first list according to the numbers indicated by the second list. For example: repeat ([1,2,3], [4,0,3]) = [1,1,1,1,3,3,3]repeat ([1,2,3], [4,0,3]) = [1,1,1,1,3,3,3].
6. Write a function addOpt : int option * int option -> int optionaddOpt : int option * int option -> int option that given two "optional" integers, adds them if they are both present (returning SOMESOME of their sum), or returns NONENONE if at least one of the two arguments is NONENONE.
7. Write a function addAllOpt : int option list -> int optionaddAllOpt : int option list -> int option that given a list of "optional" integers, adds those integers that are there (i.e. adds all the SOME iSOME i). For example: addAllOpt ([SOME 1, NONE, SOME 3]) = SOME 4addAllOpt ([SOME 1, NONE, SOME 3]) = SOME 4. If the list does not contain any SOME iSOME is in it, i.e. they are all NONENONE or the list is empty, the function should return NONENONE.
8. Write a function any : bool list -> boolany : bool list -> bool that given a list of booleans returns truetrue if there is at least one of them that is truetrue, otherwise returns falsefalse. (If the list is empty it should return falsefalse because there is no truetrue.)
9. Write a function all : bool list -> boolall : bool list -> bool that given a list of booleans returns truetrue if all of them truetrue, otherwise returns falsefalse. (If the list is empty it should return truetrue because there is no falsefalse.)
10. Write a function zip : int list * int list -> int * intzip : int list * int list -> int * int list that given two lists of integers creates consecutive pairs, and stops when one of the lists is empty. For example: zip ([1,2,3], [4, 6]) = [(1,4), (2,6)]zip ([1,2,3], [4, 6]) = [(1,4), (2,6)].
11. Challenge: Write a version zipRecyclezipRecycle of zipzip, where when one list is empty it starts recycling from its start until the other list completes. For example: zipRecycle ([1,2,3], [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]) =zipRecycle ([1,2,3], [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]) = [(1,1), (2,2), (3, 3), (1,4), (2,5), (3,6), (1,7)][(1,1), (2,2), (3, 3), (1,4), (2,5), (3,6), (1,7)].
12. Lesser challenge: Write a version zipOptzipOpt of zipzip with return type (int * int) list option(int * int) list option. This version should return SOMESOME of a list when the original lists have the same length, and NONENONE if they do not.
13. Write a function lookup : (string * int) list * string -> int optionlookup : (string * int) list * string -> int option that takes a list of pairs (s, i)(s, i) and also a string s2s2 to look up. It then goes through the list of pairs looking for the string s2s2 in the first component. If it finds a match with corresponding number ii, then it returns SOME iSOME i. If it does not, it returns NONENONE.
14. Write a function splitup : int list -> int list * int listsplitup : int list -> int list * int list that given a list of integers creates two lists of integers, one containing the non-negative entries, the other containing the negative entries. Relative order must be preserved: All non-negative entries must appear in the same order in which they were on the original list, and similarly for the negative entries.
15. Write a version splitAt : int list * int -> int list * int listsplitAt : int list * int -> int list * int list of the previous function that takes an extra "threshold" parameter, and uses that instead of 0 as the separating point for the two resulting lists.
16. Write a function isSorted : int list -> booleanisSorted : int list -> boolean that given a list of integers determines whether the list is sorted in increasing order.
17. Write a function isAnySorted : int list -> booleanisAnySorted : int list -> boolean, that given a list of integers determines whether the list is sorted in either increasing or decreasing order.
18. Write a function sortedMerge : int list * int list -> int listsortedMerge : int list * int list -> int list that takes two lists of integers that are each sorted from smallest to largest, and merges them into one sorted list. For example: sortedMerge ([1,4,7], [5,8,9]) = [1,4,5,7,8,9]sortedMerge ([1,4,7], [5,8,9]) = [1,4,5,7,8,9].
19. Write a sorting function qsort : int list -> int listqsort : int list -> int list that works as follows: Takes the first element out, and uses it as the "threshold" for splitAtsplitAt. It then recursively sorts the two lists produced by splitAtsplitAt. Finally it brings the two lists together. (Don't forget that element you took out, it needs to get back in at some point). You could use sortedMergesortedMerge for the "bring together" part, but you do not need to as all the numbers in one list are less than all the numbers in the other.)
20. Write a function divide : int list -> int list * int listdivide : int list -> int list * int list that takes a list of integers and produces two lists by alternating elements between the two lists.  For example: divide ([1,2,3,4,5,6,7]) = ([1,3,5,7], [2,4,6])divide ([1,2,3,4,5,6,7]) = ([1,3,5,7], [2,4,6]).
21. Write another sorting function not_so_quick_sort : int list -> int listnot_so_quick_sort : int list -> int list that works as follows: Given the initial list of integers, splits it in two lists using divide, then recursively sorts those two lists, then merges them together with sortedMergesortedMerge. 
22. Write a function fullDivide : int * int -> int * intfullDivide : int * int -> int * int that given two numbers kk and nn it attempts to evenly divide kk into nn as many times as possible, and returns a pair (d, n2)(d, n2) where dd is the number of times while n2n2 is the resulting nn after all those divisions. Examples: fullDivide (2, 40) = (3, 5)fullDivide (2, 40) = (3, 5) because 2*2*2*5 = 402*2*2*5 = 40 and fullDivide((3,10)) = (0, 10) fullDivide((3,10)) = (0, 10) because 33 does not divide 1010.
23. Using fullDividefullDivide, write a function factorize : int -> (int * int) listfactorize : int -> (int * int) list that given a number nn returns a list of pairs (d, k)(d, k) where dd is a prime number dividing nn and kk is the number of times it fits. The pairs should be in increasing order of prime factor, and the process should stop when the divisor considered surpasses the square root of nn. If you make sure to use the reduced number n2n2 given by fullDividefullDivide for each next step, you should not need to test if the divisors are prime: If a number divides into nn, it must be prime (if it had prime factors, they would have been earlier prime factors of nn and thus reduced earlier). Examples: factorize(20) = [(2,2), (5,1)]factorize(20) = [(2,2), (5,1)]; factorize(36) = [(2,2), (3,2)]factorize(36) = [(2,2), (3,2)]; factorize(1) = []factorize(1) = [].
24. Write a function multiply : (int * int) list -> intmultiply : (int * int) list -> int that given a factorization of a number nn as described in the previous problem computes back the number nn. So this should do the opposite of factorizefactorize.
25. Challenge (hard): Write a function all_products : (int * int) list -> int listall_products : (int * int) list -> int list that given a factorization list result from factorizefactorize creates a list all of possible products produced from using some or all of those prime factors no more than the number of times they are available. This should end up being a list of all the divisors of the number nn that gave rise to the list. Example: all_products([(2,2), (5,1)]) = [1,2,4,5,10,20]all_products([(2,2), (5,1)]) = [1,2,4,5,10,20]. For extra challenge, your recursive process should return the numbers in this order, as opposed to sorting them afterwards.